okay we're now going to continue with
some additional techniques for text
summarization I'm going to go very
briefly over a few more papers well the
first one is by John Conroy Diane only
from 2001 it uses a hidden Markov models
for text summarization and it is that we
want to take into account the local
dependencies between sentences the idea
is that you don't want to include
sentences in the summary randomly no
independent of one another way often if
you include the sentence you have to
decide whether the sentence before after
it should also be included so the
features that I used are things like
position number of terms similarity to
the document terms so that which is very
similar to the centroid idea in the mid
paper so the hmm alternates between some
again non summary states so how the
probability of staying in a summary
state or of leaving a summary state
going to no summary state and so on all
the four possible combinations so here's
an example from the conroy and O'Leary
paper you have green and blue sentences
that tell you whether you want to
include the centers in the summary or
not
next paper is by Mouse Osborne 2002 he
was the first one to take into account
the fact that the features used in
previous papers were actually dependent
and techniques like naive Bayesian and
so on should not be necessarily the best
ones so in his case he used the MaxEnt
or log linear model to take into account
the dependencies between the different
features and he got better performance
than the base so the features that he
used were sentence lengths sentence
positioned whether the sentence is
inside introduction of the document
where it's inside a conclusion and so on
now the next paper is by a con and
another of 2004 it was published in
Journal of artificial intelligence
research or Jerr and this was the first
paper on method code based on a random
walks for multi document summarization
and that technique also works for single
document summaries so the idea is
something called lexical centrality
lexical centrality me
that if a sentence is likely to be
visited during a random walk process on
a similarity graph corresponding to all
the sentences in the set of documents
then that sentence is worthy of
including in the summary so the steps
are the following you can present a text
as graph with Santos is connected to
each other if they have a lot of words
in common and then you just use a
standard graph centrality metric for
example between a centrality I can
vector centrality to determine the top
sentences one of the components of leg
shank is graph clustering so before you
want to pick the most central sentences
you want also to segment the graph into
units that correspond to different
themes so here's an example we have a
collection of 10 or 11 sentences from
different documents that correspond to
the same event the first one D 1 s 1
just means that it's sent as one from
document 1 the second one is sent as one
from document 2 and so on we have 11 of
those in total and we can now build a
similarity matrix that corresponds to
all the different pairs of sentences in
that input now it's obvious that the
diagonal entries are all ones however we
are also very interested in the high
values that are not on the diagonal so
for example this is 0.45 value here
between sentences 1 & 2 so send us 1 and
send us to God be very strongly
connected in the graph so now let's see
how we can compute the cosine centrality
of this graph using a cosine cutoff of
0.3 so what we have here is 11 nodes
each of which corresponds to one of the
sentences in the input and only those
sentence pairs that have a similarity
above 0.3 are connected now as you can
see this graph is still fairly
disconnected and there's not much useful
information that can be gained from the
structure if we lower the cutoff for
cosine similarity to 0.2 we're going to
see much better structure in fact it was
very obvious at this point that sentence
d4 s1 is very highly connected
to the rest of the graph where a sadness
is like D 2 s 2 and D 3 s 1 are not as
highly connected if we keep lowering the
- hold we're going to get a situation
where almost everything is connected to
everything so we don't want to go that
far in in there kind of a lot of paper
they found that threshold of about 0.15
gives you the best information value for
the graph so this approximately half of
the connections are actually present and
half are not present so in a graph like
this what you want is four sentences to
vote for the most central sentence by
essentially passing messages along the
edges of the graph so if D for s 1 is
the most central sentence we want to
produce that as part of the somewhere so
here I'm going to discuss a little bit
more advanced material you can skip this
part if you don't feel comfortable with
the linear algebra used in it so here's
how Lex rank works
Lex rank is the lexical centrality
method used in there kind of a lot of
paper so it's based on a square
connectivity matrix of the where each
node corresponds to a sentence it can be
the directed or undirected now an
eigenvalue for square matrix a is a
scalar lambda such that there exists a
vector X which is not a null vector such
that the product a X of the matrix with
that vector is equal to the product of
the scalar lambda with that vector so
that's some sort of a implicit direction
of the matrix the normalized eigen
vector associated with the largest
lambda is called the principle a
convective alpha and a matrix is called
the stochastic matrix when the sum of
entries in each row sum to 1 and none of
them is negative so they all from some
probability distribution and there is a
theorem that says that all stochastic
matrices have a principal eigenvector so
the connectivity matrix in this kind of
setup is similar to the one that is used
in PageRank for a document ranking
that's
system behind Google and it's also not
to be a reducible so one can use an
integrative power method to compute the
principal investor for pretty much
arbitrarily large matrices so that
eigenvector corresponds to the
stationary value of the Markov
stochastic process described by the
connectivity matrix essentially random
walk over the nose of the matrix in
proportion to the weights of the edges
and the stationary value of the markov
matrix is computed by that power method
the power method is something very
straight forward P is the vector of
values that correspond to the centrality
of the nodes each transposed is a
transpose of the connectivity matrix so
if we have the eigenvector formula p
equals e transpose p we can also write
this as AI minus ETS post P equals zero
where I is the matrix that has ones on
the diagonal and zeros everywhere else
and then in PageRank D is also an added
twist to deal with dead-end pages so if
you end up in a node that doesn't have
any outgoing edges then it's possible
with the probability 1 minus epsilon to
start randomly from a different page so
the value of a node P of V the vertex is
equal to 1 minus epsilon divided by n so
this is the probability of the
teleportation a random jump plus epsilon
the sum of the normalized values of the
centrality for the adjacent nodes where
PR are the nodes that are connected to V
and eigenvector centrality it is
computed in the following way the paths
in the random walk I just waited by the
centrality of the know that the path
connects so in general the lexing method
was found to be very successful for an
evaluation of summarization based on
duck where duck is the nice new
summarization corpus and this was an
official evaluation used for many years
in the mid
thousands so the next paper that I want
to mention very briefly is by going in
Leo 2001 this is the first paper that
uses latent semantic analysis LSA
something which we have talked about in
the past in this class it works on both
single and multi document summarization
cases and doesn't use any explicit
semantics in linguistics for example
were denied so each document is
represented as a word by sentence matrix
where each row corresponds to word and
each column corresponds to a sentence
the weights in the matrix are based on
the tf-idf values of the words so LSA as
we remember from a previous lecture is
based on the singular value
decomposition so we want to present a
matrix a as the product of you Sigma and
V transpose where the roles of V
transpose I depend on topics that
correspond to the documents and then we
want to pick the sentences that contains
the independent topics so that's in
summary how the Gong a new method works
so we're going to continue with
evaluation of summarization in the next
segment